# Angular Notes

## TypeScript Overview

### Introduction
TypeScript is a superset of JavaScript that offers type safety and compiles down to JavaScript. It provides additional features to JavaScript developers, making code more robust and maintainable.

### Features
1. **Type Safety**: TypeScript introduces static typing, allowing developers to define types for variables, parameters, and return values. This helps catch type-related errors during development rather than at runtime.
2. **Data Types**:
   - `string`: `let name: string = "Santos"`
   - `number`: `let age: number = 23`
   - `boolean`: `let isAdult: boolean = false`
   - Arrays: `let list: string[] = ["a", "b", "c"]` or `let list: Array<string> = ["a", "b", "c"]`
   - Enumerations: 
     ```typescript
     const enum Color {
         Red,
         Green,
         Blue
     }
     let c: Color = Color.Blue;
     ```
     Note: Using `const` with `enum` trims the type-related code when deployed to production.
   - `any`: Avoid using `any` whenever possible as it undermines TypeScript's type safety.
   - `void`: Represents the absence of a type, often used as the return type for functions that do not return a value.
   - `never`: Represents the type of values that never occur, such as a function that always throws an error or never returns.

3. **Type Inference**: TypeScript can infer types when they're not explicitly specified, reducing the need for verbose type annotations.
   
4. **Functions**:
   - Basic function:
     ```typescript
     function add(num1: number, num2: number) {
         return num1 + num2;
     }
     ```
     If you forget to include a return statement, TypeScript won't throw an error.
   - Typed function:
     ```typescript
     function add(num1: number, num2: number): number {
         return num1 + num2;
     }
     ```
     In this case, if the return keyword is omitted or if the return type mismatches, TypeScript will highlight the issue, providing better error detection.
   - Arrow function:
     ```typescript
     const sub = (num1: number, num2: number) => {
        return num1 - num2;
     }
     ```
   - Optional Parameters:
      ```typescript
      function greet(name?: string) {
        if (name) {
          return `Hello, ${name}!`;
          } else {
              return 'Hello!';
            }
          }
     ```
      Optional parameters can be specified using a question mark (?), allowing flexibility in function calls.
   
    - Default Parameters
      ```typescript
      function greet(name: string = 'World') {
        return `Hello, ${name}!`;
      }
      ```
      Default parameter values are assigned if no argument   is provided during the function call.
      
    - Rest Parameters
      ```typescript
      function addAll(...nums: number[]): number {
        return nums.reduce((total, num) => total + num, 0);
      }
      const numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
      console.log(addAll(...numbers)); 
      ```
       Rest parameters allow functions to accept any number of arguments as an array.
    -  Generic Functions
        ```typescript
        function getItems<T>(items: T[]): T[] {
        return new Array<T>().concat(items);
        }
        let concatResult = getItems<number>([1, 2, 3, 4, 5]);
        let concatString = getItems<string>(["a", "b", "c",    "d", "e"]);
        ```
          Generic functions enable writing reusable code that works with different types.
5. **Classes**: With ES6, TypeScript provides class syntax for object-oriented programming, eliminating the need for Immediately Invoked Function Expressions (IIFEs) used in pre-ES6 JavaScript.

6. **TypeScript Decorators**: TypeScript supports decorators for classes and interfaces, allowing developers to add metadata or modify behavior at runtime.

7. **ES Modules**: TypeScript supports ES Modules, providing a standardized way to organize and share code between files.

8. **tsconfig.json File**: The `tsconfig.json` file is used to configure the TypeScript compiler (`tsc`) options for a project. It specifies compiler options, file inclusion/exclusion, and project references.


## Installation and Setup

1. **Installing Angular CLI**: Use npm to install Angular CLI globally: `npm install -g @angular/cli` (Consider using `npx` to avoid having a global version).

2. **Angular Workspace Creation**:
   - To create a new Angular workspace without a default application: `ng new appName --createApplication=false`.
   - Alternatively, simply run: `ng new appName`.

3. **Workspace Walkthrough**:
   - `tsconfig.spec.json`: Responsible for compiling spec.ts files (all the unit tests end in spec.ts).
   - `tsconfig.app.json`: Compiles the user code, i.e., all the .ts files.
   - `package.json` and `package-lock.json`: Dependency management files.
   - `karma.conf.js`: Configuration file to run tests generated by the user using Jasmine.
   - `angular.json`: Contains all the information related to the current workspace.
   - `.gitignore`
   - `.editorconfig`
   - `.browserslistrc`: his file has all the browsers our app supports or browser user wants his application to support  I) inside the src folder we will write all our code.
   - `src` folder: Contains all the user code.

4. **Monorepo**:
   In Angular development, a monorepo refers to a single repository containing multiple projects or applications. This approach streamlines version control, dependency management, and code sharing across projects. Within a monorepo, each Angular application or library resides in its own directory, allowing for centralized configuration and easier collaboration among developers. 

5. **Inside the src Folder**:
   - `test.ts`: Used by Karma.
   - `.css` file: For global styling.
   - `polyfills.ts`: Plays a critical role in ensuring cross-browser compatibility by providing polyfills for features not supported by all browsers.
   - `main.ts`: Serves as the starting point for an Angular application.
   - `index.html`: Main file which will be rendered.
   - `environments` folder.
   - `assets` folder.
   - `app` folder.

6. **Inline HTML and CSS**:
   - Inline HTML and CSS can be written using the template and style properties:
   ```typescript
      @Component({
        selector: 'app-example',
        template: `<p>This is an example component with inline HTML</p>`,
        styles: [`p { color: blue; }`]
      })
      export class ExampleComponent {}
7. **Components**:
   - Views that will be rendered by the browser.
     ```typescript
        ng g c componentName

